=head1 NAME

iniq - INI file reader

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<iniq> [options] [FILE]

With no FILE, read standard input.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

iniq is a simple INI file reader for the command line.
It queries an INI file based on the path <I<section>><I<separator>><I<key>> and
allows use of custom separators in the file and formatting of the output.
Sections inherit keys from a special DEFAULT section unless the I<-d> flag is
used.
See below for examples.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h>

Show help message.

=item B<-q>

Suppress error messages.

=item B<-d>

Exclude DEFAULT section from output.

=item B<-s> I<SEPARATORS>

Key/value pair separators. Default is '=:'.

=item B<-m>

Parse multi-line entries. An entry spans multiple lines if subsequent lines are
indented deeper than the first line.

=item B<-P> I<SEPARATOR>

Path separator character. Default is '.'.

=item B<-p> I<PATH>

Path specifying section/key to print.
Its format is '<I<section>><I<separator>><I<key>>',
where <I<separator>> is the path separator as specified by the B<-P> flag.
If no key is provided, all key/value pairs in section are printed.
If section is followed by a <I<separator>> but no key, key names in section are
printed.
A path without a section will print pairs not in any section.
A path composed of two <I<separator>>s will print key names not in any section.

=item B<-f> I<FORMAT>

Print output according to I<FORMAT>, where %s, %k, and %v are replaced by the
section, key, and value respectively.

=item B<-v>

Show version.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

=over

=item Given the configuration file F<example.conf>:

 in_section=false
 [DEFAULT]
 default=true
 [section1]
 key1=value1
 [example.com]
 key2=value2

=item Print sections in a file:

B<iniq> F<example.conf>
 DEFAULT
 section1

=item Exclude DEFAULT section:

B<iniq> -d F<example.conf>
 section1

=item Print sectionless key/value pairs:

B<iniq> -p . F<example.conf>
 in_section=false

=item Print sectionless keys:

B<iniq> -p .. F<example.conf>
 in_section

=item Print value of sectionless key:

B<iniq> -p .in_section F<example.conf>
 false

=item Print key/value pairs in section1, excluding DEFAULT:

B<iniq> -d -p section1 F<example.conf>
 key1=value1

=item Print keys in section1, excluding DEFAULT:

B<iniq> -d -p section1. F<example.conf>
 key1

=item Print value of key1 in section1:

B<iniq> -p section1.key1 F<example.conf>
 value1

=item Use alternative path separator:

B<iniq> -P , -p example.com,key2 F<example.conf>
 value2

=item Print values followed by their keys in section1, using the format I<%v:%k>:

B<iniq> -p section1 -f %v:%k F<example.conf>
 true:default
 value1:key1

=item Print only the values in section1, using the format I<%v>:

B<iniq> -p section1 -f %v F<example.conf>
 true
 value1

=item Escape section name containing dots:

B<iniq> -d -p example\\.com F<example.conf>
 key2=value2

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

James Reed E<lt>jcrd@tuta.ioE<gt>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Bugs and issues can be reported here: L<https://github.com/jcrd/iniq/issues>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2018 James Reed. iniq is licensed under the New BSD License.
